OUAT Rewrite Characters

Rothbart
A shapeshifter - owls and the Great Animal are his specialty. 
Rothbart was orphaned as a child when his parents (also shapeshifters) were killed by King William's army. Albinia found him and raised him as her own, but he retained his hatred for humans. After Albinia's death, he killed King William, forcing Prince Leopold to the throne. He holds a grudge against Snow White and Prince Charming for what they did to Maleficent and her egg. After discovering that Maleficent was killed by Emma, he vows revenge against Emma and all of her family. He tasks Odile with the job of resurrecting Rumplestiltskin and casting the Dark Curse so he can achieve his revenge. 

King William
The father of Prince Leopold, therefore Snow White's grandfather. 
After granting Rothbart his daughter Lucrece's hand in marriage, he is murdered by Rothbart. However, Rothbart does not succeed to the throne because while Lucrece is a bastard daughter. 

Odile
Daughter of Rothbart and Lucrece. 
She does not have her father's shapeshifting abilities but is highly skilled in all kinds of magic. She was conceived by rape. (?) Her mother supposedly ran away when she was young, and her father instilled in her a hatred towards humans. She is then raised by her grandmother, Benicia/Maleficent, and Bridget and taught the ways of magic. She meets Captain Hook, whom she falls in love with because of his cruelty towards others. After the residents of Storybrooke are returned to the Enchanted Forest, she works together with her father to exact revenge on the Charmings. She takes advantage of Captain Hook's bloodlust to get what she wants. She meets Neal, who's past parallels her own, and realizes that not all humans are evil. As she learns more and more about Neal, she starts to turn away from dark magic. After enacting the Dark Curse, she half-heartedly goes along with her father's plans until she realizes that she is in love with Neal. She sends the memory potion to Neal. She wants to open a time portal to tell her past self not to help her father in his plans. 

Lucrece
Prince Leopold's older half-sister, King William's daughter, Rothbart's wife, Odile's mother. Descendent of the Seer who Rumplestiltskin took the power of Seeing from. 
Born as the illegitimate child from one of King William's mistresses. She was killed by Rothbart as part of his plan to get Odile to hate humans. 

Bridget
Servant to Rothbart. (Belle's mother?) 
Bridget was saved from a horrible death by ogres by Rothbart when he was young. She has no recollection of her past before the ogre attack. Bridget is extremely loyal to Rothbart and a second mother to Odile, making her the person Odile loves the most. She is saddened by the path that Rothbart has taken but remains by his side because she wants to see the best in him. 

Benicia/Maleficent
Daughter of Albinia. Dragon shifter. 
Born Benicia, she was a always a happy child. Rothbart and Benicia were extremely close. After Albinia's death, she changed her name to Maleficient. She vowed revenge on King Stefan and his line and cast a Sleeping Curse on Briar Rose. She eventually has an egg, which Show White and Charming steal for their own selfish desires. Heartbroken, she adopts a pet unicorn. Regina transported her to Storybrooke in her dragon form. Emma kills Maleficent trying to get the potion of True Love for Rumplestiltskin. 

Albinia
Mother of Maleficent, adoptive mother of Rothbart. 
Dragon shifter. Having always lived peacefully with humans, she tried to instill those values in her children. She was murdered by King Stefan, one of her closest friends and confidants. 

Marian
After being cured by Rumplestiltskin's wand, there were adverse side effects. She accidentally became skilled at dark magic, which sways her conscience. After Robin died on a mission, she dreaded raising Roland alone. She blindly/accidentally wiped the memories of the Merry Men and found a replacement for Robin: a man with a lion tattoo on his arm named Robin Lowe. 