Once Upon A Time Rewrite

~ watch OUAT wonderland
~ watch OUAT 4-present

~ no frozen arc
~ no queens of darkness arc

3B - Swan Princess Arc
Villain – [Von] Rothbart / The Great Animal (The Swan Princess)
	~ Brother of Maleficent, wants revenge against the Charmings for what happened to his sister and her child
	~ rothbart = red beard
Enchanted Forest: Rothbart wants to rule the Enchanted Forest. Disguised as a Merry Man, tricks the Charmings and Regina into trusting him after defeating Bridget, his own minion who "took over" the kingdom. Hook initially goes off to find his ship, wanting to return to being a pirate. However Rothbart finds him, and in the guise of a Merry Man, convinces Hook to seek out reviving the Dark One to find his way back to Emma. Hook then convinces Belle to go with him to the Dark One's castle, where Rothbart has planted the key to the Dark One vault to resurrect Rumplestiltskin. Hook uses the key and Rumplestiltskin absorbs him after Belle begs him to save Hook. ("You want me to save him? After all the things he's done to you, Belle? To me? To us?" "It doesn't matter what he's done, you can't just let him die like this! The hero I know that saved us in Storybrooke wouldn't let him die this way. There's good in you, Rumple! Save him!") Shortly after, Rothbart departs with the Dark One and Belle makes her way back to the Charmings to tell them about Rothbart. The Charmings decide to enact the curse to save Emma. [curse requires the heart of a true love, not the necessarily thing you love most] Rothbart appears to put a memory spell on the curse while taking a memory potion for himself and Rumplestiltskin. Odile taunts Rumplestiltskin. ("Too bad your son won't know your fate.") Rumplestiltskin sends the memory potion to Neal, who had been looking for an alternative way [Ariel/mermaids] to get back to Emma and Henry. ("Regina, I need to ask you something. How did you communicate with Belle back in Storybrooke while in Neverland?" "I got Ariel to send messages for me. She can travel between the realms." "How might I find her?" "She's a mermaid. She probably lives in the ocean." "…" "But…If you wish to summon her, you must find a conch. Just call to her and she will come.")
	~ http://onceuponatimeabc.wikia.com/wiki/Magic_paper
Storybrooke: The town searches for missing people [Hook]. Emma, Neal, and Hook search for Rumplestiltskin after Hook is found, leading to the revelation that Hook and Rumplestiltskin are one. Hook and Rumplestiltskin are separated and Hook dies in Emma's arms. Rothbart calls Rumplestiltskin away [Rothbart remains unrevealed, is an owl in a tree]. Emma is pursued by Neal and Rothbart (disguised as one of the merry men?) [Neal is still allowed to see Henry, who doesn't want anything to do with him - no memories]. Neal senses something isn't right and tries to convince Emma. ["are you jealous, neal?"] Rothbart eventually traps Emma at his residence and asks her to marry him. She refuses and he reveals himself to her. He turns her into a swan until she will agree to marry him. Rothbart sends Odile out to pretend to be Emma. Emma comes to Henry in a dream, asking him to believe in magic and to find Regina. He reads the book, given to him by Mary Margaret, and pieces of his memory come back. Regina's kiss breaks the curse upon the town. Emma is able to get Neal [Henry, Belle, others?] to come save her [human form at night]. Henry [with Belle] finds Emma first and saves her by choosing correctly between Odile and Emma. His profession of love for his mother breaks the curse. Belle traps Rothbart in Pandora's Box and returns the Dark One's dagger to Rumplestiltskin [Rumple proposes]. Rumple locks the box away and Neal, Emma, and Henry attend Rumplestiltskin and Belle's wedding.
Cliffhanger: charmings and regina confront odile in jail cell ("This happiness you feel right now? Enjoy it - while it lasts. I will destroy your happy endings. And this time, I won't have to rewrite your daughter's past to do it.")

4A/B - ???/Author Arc
Villain (4A) - Odile (mother - queen eva's half-sister, teacher - cora and maleficent)
	~ time travel - odile casts spell, http://www.nurseryrhymes.com/Fairy_Bread, ring around the rosey, emma, neal, and regina fall down portal, odile wants to go back in time to prevent snow white from meeting prince charming, turn snow white evil
		~ prince aiden, princess cassidy, regina stays behind with rumple and belle to do magic things
		~ ingredients: fairy bread (floral bread (flowers: lotus (rebirth), borage (courage), oxeye daisy (patience), witch-hazel, gorse (love / heart), laurel (ambition / brain)), dust from feet (must come from the place that person calls home), fairy dust, the crumbs from a child's dinner, baked in an oven, the fire of which comes from a burning broom) sprinkled with ashes, portal in the shade of pine, ring of magic (blue and black) roses) (brain, courage, a resilient heart)
		~ bring back marian, marian is "evil" (actor change for robin hood) (RH snuck into the DO castle to get the want to heal marian. the magic from the wand had side effects, giving magic to marian. the magic she had was dark and changed her disposition, shown in bits and pieces. RH dies during one of his raids with the merry men. marian, distraught, seeks another to replace him - her son cannot be without a father. she searches for a man similar to RH and finds Robin Lowe. she glamours his face (her magic isn't powerful enough for a full glamour) to look like her robin, over time letting the glamour wear off until everyone saw Robin Lowe as RH - one of the new memories given to robin is that magic is evil, hence the distaste he has for it when will robs maleficent's castle.) (when marian returns, she shows her distrust towards regina and hints to her what she has done to robin - "You will not break up my family. I've worked too hard to make Robin the man he is today.")
	~ odile and regina teach emma control over her powers ("You, my dear cousin, are inherently more powerful than I am. But I can show you even more, I can teach you how to optimize your abilities. Not to mention, my magic is neutral, unlike our friend Regina here. However, if you still don't trust me, bring her with you. The two of you combined will most certainly overpower me.") ("Of course Cora was my teacher. After what happened to my cousin, Daddy sent me to Wonderland for my own protection. Cora taught me everything I know, except for transfiguration. Daddy and Aunt Maleficent taught me that.")
	~ rumple wants to separate from the dagger, belle forces him over town line -> motivation to find author
		~ odile makes deal to collect fairies for her father's ashes, makes a deal to bring neal back to rumple in exchange for his secrecy
		~ need sorcerer's apprentice to free rumple from dagger (introduce in 4A)

	~ charmings discover pregnancy, affects relationship w/ emma, due to past w/ maleficent  (4a)

	~ prove swanfire is true love somehow… (when? no one knows, use kiss in dark one arc to prove?)

	~ push emma to become dark (4b) 
	~ bring back lily (resurrect maleficent?) (4b)
	~ henry becomes author (4b)
	~ regina conflicted to contribute to finding author? (4b)
	~ need august to find author (4b)
	~ marian goes under sleeping curse from a hairpin she buys at gold's shop that was laced with a sleeping curse

5 - Dark One Arc/Camelot