OUAT Rewrite - Take Two


- Land Without Magic

~ Enchanted Forest

> Flashbacks



New Characters

King George - Father of King Leopold. 
(character St. George is based off of.)

Rothbart - The Great Animal (a shapeshifter that ages slowly because of its abilities). Rothbart's parents, the rulers of a small kingdom, were slaughtered by soldiers of King George, Snow White's grandfather. He was adopted by a dragoness named Albinia who raised him along side her daughter, Benicia. Albinia raised him to forget his hatred towards humans. He married another dragoness named Simin and they had a daughter named Odile. After the murders of Albinia and Bianca, his hatred for humans returned tenfold. He trusted only Bridgette, a human who served Simin. He wants to completely wipe out King George's family line and return the lands to the proper owners.



Albinia - Dragoness. She found Rothbart hidden away and took him as her own. Shortly afterwards, her own daughter Benicia was hatched. She was murdered by King Stefan's soldiers.



Benicia - Dragoness (white). After her mother and sister-in-law's murders, she hates humans and swears to avenge them. Her anger changes her scales from white to black and she takes on the name Maleficent. She also casts a Sleeping Curse on Briar Rose.



Simin - Dragoness (silver). Rothbart's wife and Odile's mother. Murdered by King Leopold's men. 



Odile - Shapeshifter (swan). Because she is a shapeshifter and Rothbart's daughter, she was once hunted as a child. She sought shelter with the Dark One. She struck a deal with him: shelter for anything he wants from her father. The Dark One chose to take her as an apprentice. However, as a gentle soul, she hated Dark Magic even though she excelled at it. Her father was enormously proud and excited for her skills could allow him to take back his kingdom. Rumplestiltskin opened up frequently to her because she reminded him of his son. Eventually, he decided she was too soft to cast the Dark Curse and stopped training her at her wish. He also helped her give longevity to Bridgette with a spell - some of her longevity would be passed to Bridgette and should she die, so would Bridgette. She meets Neal and falls in love with him because of their similar experiences. She is blackmailed into doing everything her father commands because he possesses Bridgette's heart. She wants to go back in time and prevent her mother and grandmother's death so her father will never become dark.



Bridgette - Human (elderly). She was lady-in-waiting to Simin and becomes Odile's nursemaid. After Simin's death, she is the closest thing Odile has to a mother. Descendent of the seer who predicted Rumplestiltskin’s fate. She tells Odile the prophecy of the Last Author, a servant of Merlin. 

The Last Author (Henry) - The Author is said to have a heart of gold and to have been raised in perfect harmony with darkness and light. As the last Author, he would have the ability to alter reality and time itself.



S3E12 - 

- Neal delivers a letter to Emma. Emma is dating Stryx Byrd, who proposes to her and wants her to meet his family in his hometown Storybrooke, Maine. Upon arriving at the address enclosed in Neal's letter, Emma finds the dreamcatcher and Henry's camera. After developing the photos, she believes Neal and drinks the memory potion. She breaks it off with Stryx. He transforms and attacks her and Neal joins her in fighting him off. She dreads going to Storybrooke because Stryx's "family" is there. Neal hands her the TL necklace before starting their journey, which she wistfully accepts and puts on. 

~ Hook goes looking for the Jolly Roger. Neal goes looking for Ariel, on the advice of Regina and Belle. The group goes back to the castle. On their way the meet Robin Hood, who saves them from attacking owls, and Odile, who prevents them from touching the barrier. 



S3E13 - 

- Regina sees Henry for the first time. Emma and Regina discuss who might have cast the curse and try to replicate the memory potion for Henry. Neal sees Odile at the town hall meeting. A Merry Man breaks into the office but is clearly under someone else's control so Emma and Regina release him. Emma meets Rothbart as Graham Rothbart pretending to be a Merry Man. 

~ Regina breaks into the castle with Robin Hood and Odile. Robin prevents her from casing a Sleeping Curse on herself. Odile lets Rothbart in. Regina resolves to save Henry.



S3E14 - 

~ Hook tries to rob a young blonde girl. When he sees her face, he mistakes her for Emma and she uses Dark Magic on him in self-defense. Odile recognizes Hook as the Crocodile. Neal stops her and she recognizes him (they meet in E17). She takes them to the town where the Jolly Roger is and Hook kills Blackbeard despite Ariel's pleas. Neal helps Ariel and she helps him get back to the Land Without Magic. Odile steals Hook's heart after Neal leaves.

- Emma receives gifts from Rothbart while Neal spends time with Odile. Emma and Neal fight about their new friendships, causing Henry to be suspicious of their relationship. Emma, David, and Snow White track the Merry Man and find Rothbart's hideout and Rumplestiltskin's spinning wheel.



S3E15 - 

- The Merry Man assaults the trio and runs off into the woods. David and Emma chase after him. Rumplestiltskin reveals himself to Snow White and tells her that Rothbart and Odile are behind everything. Regina discovers Robin is her TL while searching for clues at Rothbart's cabin. Emma tells Henry they came to Storybrooke because her friends needed her help.

~ Hook, under the Odile's control, forces Belle to take him to the Dark One Castle so they can find the Dark One Vault and Key. When Hook opens the vault, he dies.  Odile and Rothbart appear and threaten Belle. They force Rumplestiltskin to tell them how to cast the Dark Curse.



S3E16 - 

- Neal finally gets to spend time with Henry. Rothbart seeks out Emma and gives her an ultimatum: marry him or he will kill Henry. Snow White and David get Belle's help to determine why Rothbart wants the kingdom. Regina tries to find a way to protect Henry from Rothbart and has a heart-to-heart with Robin.

> Rothbart loses his parents in a battle led by King George. King George also dies. He is adopted by Albinia. Albinia is later murdered by King Stefan.



S3E17 - 

- Emma learns magic from Regina. Odile explains herself to Neal and gives him a potion to take away Emma's magic. Henry runs away and spends the day with Odile. Odile gives him a memory potion. 
~ Odile and Neal meet. She recognizes him instantly as Rumplestiltskin's son. They empathize through their similar pasts and he travels with her to a port city. She gives him a locator spell to help him find Emma and Henry.



S3E18 - 

- Everyone searches for the book to try and return Henry's memories to him. Neal catches Henry trying to break into Emma's car and shows him how it's done. They talk and Henry reveals he knows Neal is his father. Odile appears to warn them Rothbart is coming. Everyone else joins them and they break the curse. Rothbart arrives and abducts Emma and forces Odile to follow him. 

~ Belle tells everyone that Rumplestiltskin is back. Rothbart reveals his plans. Everyone goes to the DO Castle to find Rumplestiltskin and Odile tells them that the only way to defeat Rothbart is with an arrow  made of the purest Light Magic straight to the heart - he became quite skilled at Dark Magic and has many enchantments protecting him. Odile casts the Dark Curse and Rothbart adds a memory potion. Odile sends a vial of memory potion out to Neal for Emma. 



S3E19 - 

> Odile watches her mother die, who begs her not to avenge her death. Odile is raised with Bridgette. Bridgette tells her about a spell that will grant one their deepest desire, as long as they are pure of heart. 
~ Odile researches the Pure Wish spell. Rumplestiltskin criticizes her saying he already gave Bridgette longevity, what more could she want?

- Rothbart tries to force Emma to marry him - he wants a child born from Light magic and Dark magic - or else drink a potion that will take away her powers - he cannot kill her with her powers due to her Light magic. He tricks her into drinking the potion by torturing "Henry" (an illusion). Upon drinking the potion, everyone breaks into the castle and he turns her into a swan. Everyone splits into teams: the Charmings, Regina Robin and Henry, Neal and Belle. The Charmings get trapped in an illusion room, showing them life without the Curse. Neal and Belle encounter Rumplestiltskin. Regina and Robin get separated from Henry. Henry meets Odile. She leads him to Emma and tells him how to break the curse (and the one on the town) - vow of everlasting love. Rothbart turns Odile into Emma and tells Henry to pick the right one. Enraged with Henry's correct pick, Rothbart turns into the Great Animal and knocks Emma unconscious. Neal and Belle, led by Rumplestiltskin, find Emma and Henry. Odile tells them how to defeat Rothbart - arrow of pure Light magic to the heart. However, with Emma unconscious, they cannot perform the spell - also, heroes don't kill. Henry gives them Pandora's Box and Neal shoots Rothbart in the wing. They trap him in the Box after turning him back into a human and healing him. The enchantments on the house disappear and Odile spirits away unnoticed.



S3E20 - 

> Odile is running away from King Leopold's men and takes shelter at the Dark One's Castle. She explains her past to him and he decides to take her on as an apprentice. Rumplestiltskin teaches her beginning Dark Magic. 
Rumplestiltskin teaches her Dark Magic - pulling out hearts. 

- Odile begins casting the Pure Wish spell. Henry leads everyone to her and they stop her. She gives the Dagger to Rumplestiltskin and crushes her heart. Nothing changes. Neal and Rumplestiltskin mourn. Rumplestiltskin proposes to Belle with the Dagger.



S3E21 - 

> Emma watches another girl get adopted
.
- Emma and family are at Granny's celebrating Emma and Henry's return. Snow quietly confronts Emma about taking Henry back to New York. Emma admits she doesn't have magic and they would be safer in there. Regina overhears and makes a scene. Emma leaves the restaurant angrily. Neal goes after her after Henry gives him the book. Emma tells Neal about her frustrations and wishes she could be part of the stories and feel connected with her family instead of like a stranger. A portal opens up and they fall through.

~ Neal and Emma find themselves back in time and surrounded by wanted posters of Snow White. Thye interrupt the meeting between Snow White and Prince Charming and go to Rumplestiltskin for help. They go to Prince David's engagement party as Prince Edmund and Princess Cassidy. Snow gets the ring but drops it. Emma gets arrested.



S3E22 - 

> Neal and Emma at the amusement park
.
~ The soldier that brings and Emma back to her cell is Graham. She tries to tell him to save himself but he says the Queen has his heart. Emma meets her cellmate Marian and breaks them out. Charming, Neal, and Ruby meet up with Emma and Marian as they are escaping. Graham helps save Snow and shows Emma where his heart is kept. After making it out safely, Emma hugs her mother but is upset she doesn't recognize her. Emma resolves to stay in Storybrooke with her family. She allows herself to be honest with herself and her emotions and a portal back to Storybrooke opens up. Rumplestiltskin realizes who Neal is and tries to prevent him from leaving but Neal tells him they'll meet again and they'll be happy together in the future.

- Emma and Neal return to Storybrooke with Marian and Graham's heart. Neal fills Marian in while Emma goes to Granny's. Emma embraces her parents and tells everyone they're going to stay in Storybrooke. They sit down to read the book again and Emma tells them that she was Princess Cassidy. Neal comes back with Marian and Emma introduces her to Regina. Marian and Robin reunite, upsetting Regina. Neal invites Emma to go to Rumplestiltskin and Belle's wedding. Graham waltzes in, kisses Emma, and proposes.