OUAT Rewrite S3 Plot

- Storybrooke/Land without Magic
~ Enchanted Forest
> Flashbacks

MIRRORS. HAVE PEOPLE LOOK INTO MIRRORS.
DAVID - COURAGE, REGINA - LOVE, BELLE - WISDOM, HENRY - INNOCENCE

S3E11 - GOING HOME [Ending only]
- Neal returns for Emma.

S3E12 - NOT WHAT IT SEEMS
- Neal leaves a letter for Emma, piquing her curiosity. She initially ignores the letter. Upon visiting the address left for her, she discovers the Dreamcatcher and Henry's camera. Neal tells her about the Enchanted Forest and shows her Swan Necklace. Emma agrees to drink the memory potion and remembers. Emma is dating a man named Stryx Byrd, who proposes to her on their eight month anniversary. After drinking the memory potion, Emma tries to break it off with Stryx who then attacks her after transforming into an owl. After working together to fight off the owls, Emma and Neal take Henry and go to Storybrooke. Emma does not reveal to Henry that Neal is his father.
~ The residents of Storybrooke find themselves in the Enchanted Forest after the Dark Curse has been recanted. Hook goes off in search of his ship. Neal tries to find a way to get back to Emma and Henry; Regina and Belle suggest he search for Ariel instead of trying to resurrect Rumplestiltskin. Regina decides to go with Neal. She tells Belle how to break all the enchantments on the castle. On the way back to the Queen's Castle, Snow White and Charming meet up with Robin Hood. Upon their arrival, the group discover a hijacked protection spell around the Queen's Castle and they meet Odile who warns them not to touch the barrier. Belle decides to go back to the Dark One's Castle, her home, after assisting Snow White and Prince Charming. 

S3E13 - THIMBLERIG
- Regina sees Henry for the first time. Regina and Emma work together to discover who cast the new curse and duplicate the memory potion to give to Henry. Odile leaves behind evidence to help them find Rothbart's hideout. Emma meets Rothbart, who is disguised as a Merry Man named Graham Rothbart.
~ Belle, Robin, and Odile break into the Queen's Castle. Rothbart appears and threatens Odile. He recognizes Belle from her time with Rumplestiltskin and inquires about Maleficent's well-being. Belle tells him she doesn't know, but if anyone would it would be Rumplestiltskin or Regina. Rothbart escapes with Odile. Rothbart tells Odile to find a way to resurrect the Dark One.

S3E14 - REUNIONS
~ Hook has caught up with his band of pirates. Odile finds him and he mistakes her for Emma. Odile is hurt, but offers to help him get back to Emma if he can give her a man no one would miss. Ariel attacks Hook and he finds out that Blackbeard has commandeered the Jolly Roger. Hook gives Blackbeard to Odile and she tells him how to get back to Emma. Hook decides not to take the opportunity. 
- Emma receives flowers from Rothbart. Neal reunites with Odile. Emma and Neal fight over their new friendships. Emma, David, and Mary Margaret track down Rothbart's hiding place and find Rumple's spinning wheel hidden there.

S3E15 - COMPLICATIONS
~ Belle and Odile go back to the Dark One Castle. Odile finds the key to the Dark One Vault and convinces Belle to help her open it. Odile forces an unknown man to open the vault. After resurrecting Rumplestiltskin, Odile threatens Belle to get the Dagger. Due to her influence over him, Rumplestiltskin tells Rothbart that Emma killed Maleficent and Odile how to recreate the Dark Curse. Rothbart swears revenge on Emma. 
- Emma confronts Neal about his father - Neal is the only one who still has his memories of the past year. Odile allows Rumplestiltskin to tell everyone that Rothbart is behind the new curse. Emma tells Henry they came to Storybrooke because his grandfather (Rumplestiltskin) was taken and she's trying to get him back. Regina discovers that Robin is her soulmate while they are searching for clues at Rothbart's hideout.

S3E16 - THE GREAT ANIMAL
- Neal spends time with Henry. Rothbart shows up and asks for Emma's hand; Emma refuses, knowing who he is. He threatens her son when she rejects him and tells her she will pay for the sins of her ancestors. Snow White and David seek Belle's help to find out what happened between them and Rothbart. Regina and Robin have a heart-to-heart. 
> King William's army was tasked with destroying magical creatures and killed Rothbart's parents. Albinia finds him and raises him as her own and teaches him how to master his powers of transfiguration, as she is a Dragon Shifter. Benicia hatches from her egg and Rothbart is extremely protective of her. As Rothbart grows older, he wonders what happened to his birth parents and vows to avenge them after learning the truth.

S3E17 - KINDRED SPIRITS
~ Odile discovers Neal is Rumplestiltskin's son and places herself in Regina and Neal's path to get more information about the Dark One. Odile tells them about herself to try and get him to open up to her. Odile saves them from <something terrible> and gains their trust. They tell Odile about Emma and Henry. Odile leads them to the dock where they can find Ariel and gifts to them a Locator Spell to help them find Emma and Henry. They easily find Ariel, who is upset about Prince Eric. Neal offers to use the Locator Spell to find her Prince and she takes him to New York in return. Ariel says she can only take one person, and Regina tells Neal to go. Odile, completely aware of what Neal has done, starts to fall in love with him.
- Emma learns magic from Regina to protect herself and Henry from Rothbart. Odile tries to explain her situation to Neal. She gives him a potion to slip to Emma that would take away her magic and tells him that's the only way to protect Henry from her father.

S3E18 - BLOOD AND WATER
- Everyone searches for the Book to restore Henry's memories. Neal catches Henry trying to break into Emma's car to run away and the two talk. Henry reveals that he found out Neal was his father. Odile appears to Neal and Henry, trying to warn them about Rothbart. Rothbart attacks Henry to draw out Emma. Everyone shows up to defend Henry and everyone takes shelter. Emma gives him the book and tells him to remember. Henry hugs Regina and Neal; Regina kisses him, breaking the Dark Curse. Rothbart attacks again and takes Emma.
~ Belle reveals Rumplestiltskin's resurrection. Everyone goes to the Dark One Castle in an attempt to save Rumplestiltskin. He reveals that Rothbart is their true adversary - Odile's heart is no longer in the fight. He tells them that they won't be able to defeat Rothbart. (Odile and Henry will defeat him.) Odile comes and tells them to leave. Rothbart tells her to put a Memory Potion in the Dark Curse: they know too much. Rumplestiltskin sends everyone back to the Queen's Castle. Odile casts the Dark Curse (with Bridget's heart) and makes a Memory Potion for herself and her father. She sends a vial off to Neal for Emma. 

S3E19 - MOONLIGHT
> Bridget tells Odile a story about a legendary spell that could turn back time.
~ Odile discovers the secrets of time travel - the four virtues valued throughout all of literature and time: wisdom, courage, love, and innocence. She creates a way to collect the purest essences of those virtues via mirrors. She only needs fairy dust or a magic bean to complete the spell. Bridget gives her a small bag of fairy dust that will help her harness those energies.
- Rothbart transformed Emma into a swan - the same spell hinders Emma's powers while the spell is in effect. Emma is human only when the moon touches the lake. Everyone storms Rothbart's hideout to save Emma and split into three teams: the Charmings; Regina, Robin, and Henry; Neal and Belle. The Charmings are trapped in an illusion room that shows them life without the curse. Neal and Belle are cornered by Rumplestiltskin. Regina and Robin get separated from Henry, who meets Odile. Odile helps him find Emma. Rothbart tries to stop Henry from breaking the spell by turning Odile into an Emma look alike. Henry is successful in identifying his mother. The hideout, which had all been an illusion, collapses and Rothbart turns into the Great Animal. Odile tells them the only way to defeat her father is an arrow to the heart. Henry offers an alternative solution: Pandora's Box. They wound the Great Animal and trap him in Pandora's Box. Odile slips away unnoticed. 

S3E20 - MISGIVINGS
> Rothbart marries Odile's mother, King William's daughter and kills him. Odile's mother disappears (is killed by Rothbart). Her father tries to instill a hatred for humans in her. Albinia and Benicia teach Odile magic, which she masters quickly. Albinia is murdered by King Stefan while the three are visiting his kingdom. Benicia changes her name to Maleficent and vows to avenge her mother's death. Maleficent places Briar Rose under a Sleeping Curse. Odile's hatred for humans is solidified. 
- Henry recalls the fairy tale Odile told him and leads them to where her Time Portal is. They apprehend her before she completes the portal. Regina places a cuff on her, repressing her powers. Neal and Odile discuss their relationship while she is in jail and she gives him the Dark One's Dagger. Neal gives the Dagger to his father, who uses it to propose to Belle. The Time Portal is accidentally activated by a chance wind. 

S3E21 - SNOW DRIFTS
> Emma watches a girl get adopted.
- Emma and family are celebrating Emma and Henry's return to Storybrooke. Snow White quietly confronts Emma about taking Henry back to New York. Emma demonstrates that she no longer has magic and voices her concerns about Henry's safety. Regina overhears and makes a scene. Emma leaves the restaurant angrily and Neal goes after her with Henry's Book. They see the Time Portal and go to investigate and fall in.
~ Neal and Emma go back in time to when Snow White was still a bandit and they accidentally interrupt Snow White and Prince Charming's meeting. They decide to go to Rumplestiltskin for help who sends them to Prince David's engagement party. They appear under the aliases Prince Aiden and Princess Cassidy. Snow is able to get the ring but drops it and Emma is arrested for assisting Snow White. 

S3E22 - WHERE THE HEART IS
> Neal and Emma's amusement park date.
~ The soldier that brings Emma back to her cell is Graham and she tries to warn him about his future. He tells her his heart is in the Queen's possession - no where is safe as long as she holds his heart. Emma meets her cellmate (Marian) and helps her escape. Charming, Neal, and Ruby meet up with Marian and Emma as they are escaping. Graham meets them as well and gives Emma his heart. Snow is burned at stake. Snow turned herself into a bug to save herself. The Blue Fairy changes her back into a human. Emma is relieved and hugs Snow, who doesn't recognize her. Emma and Neal return to the Dark One's Castle. Rumplestiltskin locks them in the basement with a wand to open the Time Portal. Emma and Neal finally talk everything out, causing Emma's magic block to be lifted (she opened herself up, opening up her magic). Before they jump through the Time Portal, Rumplestiltskin wants information about his son. 
- Emma and Neal arrive back in Storybrooke and return to Granny's Diner with Marian and Graham's heart. Emma decides to stay in Storybrooke with her family. Emma and Neal tell Snow and Prince Charming that they were Prince Aiden and Princess Cassidy. Marian and Robin reunite, upsetting Regina. Neal tells Emma he's going to go to his dad's wedding and invites her to come with him. They hold hands. Graham reappears and proposes to her. 