OUAT Rewrite S3E12 - Not What It Seems

[- neal leaves emma a letter which she reads but decides to ignore after discovering the sender. emma is dating a man named Stryx Byrd. he proposes to emma and wants to bring her home to meet is family, in a town in maine. emma decides to go to the address neal provided in his letter, piqued with curiousity. she finds the dreamcatcher and henry's camera. she takes both back home and develops the photos. (neal also shows her the TL keychain at some point) she finally believes him and drinks the memory potion. emma breaks it off with Stryx and he transforms into an owl. a parliament of owls attack her. neal and emma fight off the owls and, with henry, they go back to storybrooke.]
[~ hook sets off in search of his ship after david tells him that all their belongings will show up somewhere. neal overhears and asks regina if it is true and tells her he is interested in bringing back the DO to get to emma and henry, unless she knows another way. (he shows them the emma's necklace) belle agrees that they shouldn't resurrect him and they him about ariel's power to travel between the realms. neal breaks off from the group to find her. regina is attacked by the great animal and is saved by robin hood. {regina is wounded and her blood breaks her blood magic throughout the castle} belle tells robin hood she wants to go back to the castle to see if she can find the dagger. the group discovers a protection spell around the castle.]


——————————

The townspeople of Storybrooke find themselves back in the Enchanted Forest. Emma tries to juggle her son, her relationship, and Neal's reappearance in her life. 


——————————

- one year ago, in the Enchanted Forest - 

A lonely, battered hut stood at the edge of a large, empty meadow. A woman was sweeping away fallen leaves from the doorway. She was hunched over and had gray hair. She looked as tired as the weathered house that gave her shelter. Claps of thunder overhead caught her attention. Purple storm clouds quickly advanced towards the small shelter and the woman eyed them cautiously.

"Magic," she whispered. The storm clouds had come once before, destroying the land and taking many with it. Those that were left behind had to fight each other and ogres for territory and resources. And there was the added inconvenience, or blessing in the old woman's case, of never aging. Not a single person throughout the whole Enchanted Forest for twenty eight years. Only recently had time started again. Who knew what this new wave of magic would bring. The woman held up her broom like a weapon and prepared to fight whatever came from the purple storm clouds. The mist stopped right at the edge of her cabin and, when it cleared, she saw it had deposited a small crowd of people.

"Your majesty, your highnesses, all of you, welcome home," she bowed.


——————————

- one year later, New York -

Emma walked down the hallway to her apartment and searched her purse for her keys. Finally finding them, she unlocked the door and heard the sounds of lasers shooting and ships crashing from the TV. She knew she shouldn't have bought him that new game.

"Henry, did you finish your homework?" she inquired as she shuffled through the mail on the counter.

"It's the weekend, Mom. Just a little break. Please? Plus I've almost finished this mission." Henry's begging made her smile. 

"Fine, but I want proof of at least one finished homework assignment when I come home from my date tonight. Give me two and I'll take you out tomorrow," she acquiesced. Her hands stopped when she saw a plain envelope with only her name written on it.

"Oh, Mom, there was a letter for you in the door when I got home. Left it on the counter with the rest of the mail." 

"Thanks, Henry. I see it." She'd recognize that handwriting anywhere: Neal.


——————————

"Come in, come in," the old woman welcomed Snow, Regina, and Charming into her home. "You're just in time for tea. And just so you know, everything has been right and dandy since time started moving forward again. Ogres defeated, Prince Philip and Princess Aurora have been rebuilding their kingdom. I'm sure that's what you wanted to know." She busied herself around the cramped living space trying to bring out refreshments for her new guests. Regina looked around the hovel with a disgusted face. 

"Where are we? And who are you?" Snow asked tentatively.

"My name is Bridget. You're about a day's ride from the Queen's Castle, the only castle in your kingdom still standing." 

"I cast a protection spell on it, so I would hope so," Regina scoffed while Bridget poured them all tea.

"Well, technically, the castle doesn't belong to her. It was Snow's before she took it," Charming said pointedly while sipping on his drink.

"Well, to be fair, I married into it." 

"That you did," Snow interjected then smiled. "And now, we're taking it back. Together." 

"You can't be serious." Regina rolled her eyes.

"Regina, everyone out there is scared and confused. They need hope. What better way to do that then to return united? I know you don't like it, but it's for our good and yours. And most importantly, for our people." Charming watched the two women have a silent stare down and coughed.

"Thank you for your hospitality, Bridget. We should begin preparations for our journey."

"Of course, your highness. Anything you need, you may have. I have horses behind the house and plenty of food in the cellar." The three royals thanked Bridget again and left the small cottage. 

"Well? You heard them. Go and break the news to our master," Bridget called out to a dark corner of the room. A cooing noise sounded and the owl it came from took off out the window. "It has begun."


——————————

"Emma?" A voice called Emma out of her thoughts. Emma looked across the table at her date. He was a tall, dark haired man with golden brown eyes. His eyes were the kind that captured your gaze and wouldn't let you look away. One glance and it felt like they knew you to the bottom of your soul. 

"Sorry, Stryx. What were you saying?" Emma shook her head, trying to banish thoughts of Neal and his letter.

"I asked how Henry's science fair project went. The volcano?"

"Great. It was Pompeii all over again. Thank you for your help."

"Come on, all I did was convince him not to use real lava." They both chuckled.

"His teachers did appreciate that."

"How's your food? Are you happy?"

"I am. And the food is excellent." Their hands reached across the table and met each other. Emma couldn't help but smile as happiness filled her. Little moments, she thought. A waiter came and cleared their plates away from the table while they gazed into each other's eyes.

"Happy anniversary, Emma."

"Stryx, it's not-"

"Okay, fine, eight month-iversary. I'm still celebrating it." His attitude always made Emma laugh. A waitress brought another plate to the table.

"Oh, we didn't-"

"It's fine, Emma. I ordered it while you were in the bathroom." Emma looked down at the dessert in front of her. Three macarons sat on the plate with drizzles of chocolate surrounding them. On the red one, raspberry flavored, a golden swan was drawn on it. 

"It's beautiful, Stryx." He smiled at her.

"Your favorite, my favorite, and Henry's. We can take that one back home to him." He paused while she continued to admire the little cookies. He called her name once more and she looked up at him. "I know we haven't known each other long. But I fell in love with you the moment I saw you and you accidentally tackled me in front of the very restaurant we're at right now. I love Henry and when I saw how much you love him, I loved you even more than I thought was possible. I don't need an answer right now. But, Emma Swan, will you marry me?"

Emma stared at him in disbelief. She stared at the little diamond ring in the little black box. She stared back at him, on his knee, waiting for a response. When the reality of it all hit her, she stood up and left. He sighed.

"Dammit, Emma." Stryx left some money on the table, scooped the cookies into a small bag he was grateful he had the foresight to ask the waiter for, and chased after her. He saw her pacing outside his car and walked up to her. 

"Hey." Stryx leaned against the vehicle in a way that reminded Emma of Neal. Stryx was so much like Neal. Excluding the whole "has a rap sheet" bit. 

"I'm sorry. I just- This wasn't- You took me by surprise."

"Well, that was part of the plan." He laughed quietly and waited for her to continue.

"It's only been eight months. Do we really know each other well enough to… you know…"

"We know each other better than we realize. I know why you're hesitant about this and that's okay. We don't have to get married anytime soon. I just wanted to let you know that I want to spend the rest of my life with you and with Henry. You make me happier than I could ever say." He took Emma's hand. "I don't an answer right away. Think about it and let me know." Emma sighed in relief.

"You know I love you, right?"

"And I love you." He kissed her on the forehead and offered to take her home. 

"Thanks." She smiled.


——————————

Emma came home and sighed with relief. She walked into the living room and saw Henry playing video games.

"Mrs. Cuse said you were quiet tonight."

"Not quiet, concentrating. I've finally reached level 23."

"Do you mind if a fifth-level wizard joins you?" Emma asked, sitting herself next to Henry on the couch. 

"At level 23? Good luck with that," Henry laughed. "So… what did you say? To Stryx?"

"You knew? How?" 

"Come on, Mom. First meeting, first date restaurant. Writing was on the wall."

"Technically, the writing was on the dessert," Emma said bitterly.

"So, what did you say?" Emma remained silent as she thought about the encounter all over again. Henry glanced over and saw his mother's brooding face.

"Poor guy."

"Hey, I didn't say no!"

"If you didn't say yes, I stand by my 'poor guy' assessment."

"I just need some time to think about it. I mean, it’s like a big step, kid. We’ve got a good thing going here, just the two of us."

"Yeah, and we’d still have a good thing if it was just the three of us."

"You think Stryx is worthy of joining our little family?" Emma asked incredulously. It had just been her and Henry for so long. She wasn't sure if she wanted it to change.

"He’s okay." Henry paused the game and faced his mother. "Mom, not every guy is like my dad. Not every guy is just gonna leave you."

"He didn’t just leave. He set me up to take the fall for his crime and left me in jail. He doesn’t even know you exist. He doesn’t deserve to." Emma closed herself off again. She didn't want to think about Neal. She didn't want to think about how much Stryx was like Neal or how Neal had shown up out of the blue talking about the family she supposedly had.

"This guy is not that guy. He wants to be with you. Us. He wants us to be his home. And anyways, I know you like him." 

"How?"

"Cause he’s the first guy you’ve dated I’ve ever met." Henry turned away from Emma, sensing she didn't want to talk anymore, and unpaused the game.

"When did you get so wise?" Emma asked incredulously.

"Somewhere after Level 16 when I became a knight."


——————————

"Grumpy, look at us! We're back to normal!" Sneezy sniffled.

"We're handsome again!" Happy laughed. Grumpy shooed off the other dwarves with a smile. A small cricket landed on his shoulder

"Hey, Jiminy, is that you?" he asked. The cricket chirped back to him quickly. After a quick conversation, Jiminy flew off. "Really? Okay. Hey, Your Highness, according to Jiminy, fifty more Storybrooke folk landed not two miles from here. They're popping back all over the place." Grumpy tried to hide the excitement in his voice. Prince Charming smiled and clapped him on the shoulder.

"That's good. At this rate, we'll have the whole kingdom back in no time. Grumpy, you and the dwarves spread the word: all new arrivals make haste for the Queen's Castle."

"Consider it done." Grumpy and his brothers quickly left to fulfill their new orders and Charming turned to check on the rest of the townspeople. He saw Captain Hook with a heavily supplied horse and walked over to him.

"That's a lot of supplies you have there, Hook," Charming said cautiously. He counted enough supplies for at least two days' ride, maybe more. 

"Well, you know what they say about preparation and all that," Hook responded callously. He continued tightening straps on the horse, making sure everything was secured properly. 

"There's no need to overload your horse. The Queen's castle is less than a day's ride from here. We'll have everything we need once we get there."

"Aye, that would be lovely if I were going to the Queen's castle."

"You're not coming with us?" 

"You are a perceptive prince, aren't you?" Hook laughed.

"Where are you going?" Charming tried to hide the concern in his voice. Since when did he care for this pirate? he wondered.

"Listen, mate. The Enchanted Forest is your home. Mine is the Jolly Roger." The tone in his voice didn't hide his desire for the conversation to be over with. 

"Hook, you don't even know if it's-"

"Regina told me how the bloody thing worked. It returned all of our belongings to this land as well as us. It means that somewhere out there is my ship. All I have to do is find her." Charming almost drew back from him after sensing the anger in his words.

"And what if you can't?" Seriously, when did he begin to care so much about a pirate?

"I'll just have to take another one then, won't I? That's what pirates do," he smiled at Charming mischievously as he finished tying everything up. Charming stepped away from him and the horse.

"And here I thought you'd gone and changed. You're just going to go back to being a pirate?" He tried to ignore the gentle stabbing he felt in his heart. Maybe it was when this man helped save him from the Dreamshade poison.

"I tried the hero thing. Didn't take. I've always been a pirate. Nothing can change that," Hook said from atop his horse. He turned the horse around and spurred it to a gallop.

"What was that about?" Snow White asked Charming. 

"Hook's not coming with us." He led Snow back to the rest of their people to continue preparing for the journey. 

Having heard Hook and Charming's conversation, Neal searched among the townsfolk for Regina. He found her and Belle slightly away from the rest of the group arguing about the proper way to tie supplies down to a horse.

"Hey," he said loudly, trying to gain their attention.

"What?" Regina snapped at him. Belle took this opportunity to correctly secure the supplies.

"I heard Hook say that all our stuff will be brought back here. Is that true?" 

"In a sense. It might take a while for some things, and they might not always show up where you last put them. Why? What are you looking for?"

"I was thinking of stopping by my father's place on the way to your castle." Belle stopped and looked at him.

"Are you going to try and bring him back? I'm not sure if it's possible to do that," Regina scoffed.

"The only way to know is to go to his castle and find out. If he's still around, maybe he can get me back to Emma and Henry." 

"He's right," Belle spoke up, causing Regina to roll her eyes. "When Rumple and Pan disappeared, we didn't see his dagger. But Neal, even if there was a way, are you sure that's what you want? Are you sure that's what he would want? I mean, Rumple sacrificed himself for us."

"And even if we did find a way to resurrect the Dark One, we can't make anymore portals. There's no more magic beans. Getting back to Storybrooke isn't as easy as falling through the Looking Glass anymore. The only way you can cross over is to cast another curse. Are you willing to pay the price for that? Can you?" Regina challenged him. She knew that the thing he loved most was the same as her: Henry. 

"There's gotta be another way. A less magical way perhaps. Please," Neal said desperately. He pulled out Emma's necklace and showed it to them. Belle smiled. It was her first smile Neal had seen since his father disappeared. 

"There's Ariel," Belle said. "She can cross between the realms, can't she?"

"She can. But I don't know if she can cross with another person. And who's to say she's here in the Enchanted Forest? And if you did happen to get back to them, they're not going to remember who you are. You're just the jerk that left Emma pregnant and in jail." Neal winced. Regina was right on all accounts.

"Neal has the power of True Love behind him. It'll work," Belle said resolutely, and gestured to the necklace. Regina sighed. She wasn't sure if she was resigned or happy or disgusted. 

"Fine. To find Ariel, go to the ocean and find a conch shell. Blow into it and say her name. She'll come to you if she wants to. But if this doesn't work, don't blame me." Regina strode away from them and towards Snow White and Prince Charming.

"Thanks!" Neal called after her. She waved her hand in dismissal. "Belle,-"

"No, You go. I'm going to go back to the Dark One's Castle. It's my home after all," she said with a halfhearted smile. 


——————————

"Mom, do you have it?" Emma looked up from cleaning the kitchen to Henry. "My permission slip. It's due today and if I don't turn it in I'll miss the museum trip next week." Emma checked in her purse and pulled out the slip and Neal's letter. She felt her breath catch seeing his handwriting again. 

"Um, yeah, your permission slip is right here." She handed him the paper and continued to stare at the envelope as she walked around the kitchen. She stuffed it into her pocket.

"Mom, is there something going on?" 

"No, nothing." Henry perceived her voice as more aloof than usual.

"No, you're doing it again. You're worrying."

"No, I'm not. I'm thinking. There's a difference," Emma said quickly.

"Are you thinking about Stryx?"

"No, I-," Emma stopped and thought about Neal. She didn't want Henry to know about Neal. "Yeah… I am. Can you blame me for taking twenty-four hours to think through making a life-altering decision? I just want to make sure that nothing is wrong." Henry took his mother's hand.

"You’re always look for something to be wrong. You don’t have to do that you know. Sometimes it’s okay to accept things are good. I got to go. I’m gonna be late. See you. Love you." 

"Love you, too." He hugged and kissed her goodbye and ran out the door. Emma waited until she heard the door click back into place and pulled out the envelope. She tore open it open and pulled out the letter.

"Emma, I know you don't believe me. Please go to this address. Your family needs your help. #89 Wooster Street. New York, NY. 10012. After you go to this address, meet me in Central Park by the entrance of the zoo. I'll be waiting. Neal." Emma sighed.

"Let's see what you're hiding, Neal."


——————————

Emma picked the lock at the address she was given. The gentle click she heard telling her she was successful always made her heart soar. As she opened the door, the feeling of elation disappeared and was replaced by disgust and confusion. The dingy apartment looked like no one had stepped foot in it for at least a year. Items were scattered about as if whoever lived here left in a hurry. The dreamcatcher in the window caught her eye. It was the same one from her adventures with Neal. 

"Flypaper for nightmares," she muttered and hastily stuffed it in the large purse she was happy she had the foresight to bring. She checked the mail on the coffee table and saw everything was addressed to him. A bloody rag on the couch caught her attention and disgust. She continued to look around and a camera next to the TV piqued her interest. It seemed familiar and not at the same time. She picked it up and saw Henry's name on the neck strap. Shock almost caused her to drop the camera.

"Thats… not possible."


——————————

Emma rushed to Central Park to meet Neal. She saw him sitting on a bench, nursing a cup of coffee, and yelled his name. Neal looked up and saw Emma running towards him. He stood up on the bench and walked towards her. 

"What the hell is this? Why was this at your apartment?" Emma pulled Henry's camera out of her bag. "How do you know about Henry?" Neal looked down at the camera and smiled nostalgically.

"I didn't know he'd left that," he whispered. He resisted the urge to reach out and touch it and cleared his throat instead. "Emma, about a year ago you came to New York with Henry and my father to find me. You were successful, obviously. Henry must've left his camera when we hurried back to Storybrooke to save my father."

"What are you talking about?"

"Look, Emma, I don't really know how to explain all of this to you. But you have a family. You have a mom and dad who love you very much and they're not far away from here. But they're in danger. Everyone they know and care about is in danger too. Only you can save them."

"This is starting to sound a lot like one of Henry's video games. I'm the hero for a bunch of people I've never met and I'm supposed to follow the word of the person who left me in jail?" 

"It sounds a bit outlandish, I admit, but everything about you and me is outlandish."

"How do I even know I can trust you?" Neal sighed. He pulled out Emma's necklace from his pocket and showed it to her.

"How do you have that? I thought I lost it in the fire last year," Emma asked in disbelief. 

"One year ago, when we met again, you gave this to me. I asked you why you wore it as a necklace and you said it was to remind you to never trust anyone again. I hate how much I hurt you, Emma. I would take it all back. I know I'm the reason why you can't trust anyone. But what I'm telling you right now is the truth. You need to do this for your family. You need to do this for Henry. They're his family too." He put the charm into Emma's hand and pulled a small blue bottle out of his other pocket. "Something's not right and you know it. The only one that knows what to do is you and the only way you'll find out is if you drink this. I'm going to give it to you. Here's my number. Call me if you want to talk. Or stop by my apartment. Either one." Neal started to walk away from her and paused. 

"I hope you make the right decision, Emma. For Henry. I'd like to see him again, too." Emma watched him leave in the direction she came. 


——————————

"Regina's castle is just beyond these mountains," Snow called to the traveling party behind her.

"I think you mean our castle," Charming said to her and took her hand.

"That’s going to take some getting used to. The last time I was there was just after my father’s death. And I’ve always dreamed of returning. I just never imagined it would be with Regina by our side." Snow was hopeful that they would be able to work together to restore the kingdom, and fix their broken hearts. Recalling the loss of Emma and Henry deepened the pain already in her chest. 

"I wouldn’t count on that, sister. The Queen, she's missing," Grumpy said, out of breath as he rushed to her side. Snow stopped and looked at Charming. He sighed.

Snow and Charming went back across the way they came, looking for signs of where Regina broke off from the group. 

"There," Charming pointed at some freshly broken branches. Snow started tracking and followed Regina's trail. They heard the distinct sounds of someone digging and saw Regina. Charming pushed Snow forward.

"I think this might be better without me," he smiled at her. Snow nodded to him and approached Regina.

"What are you doing?"

"So now you're following me?" Regina said defensively. 

"We were worried. And it looks like we were right to be. What are you burying?" 

"Nothing that concerns you."

"Regina…," Snow reached out to her and Regina flinched. The change in position allowed Snow to see a faint red glow emitting from the hole Regina was so focused on. "Regina, is that… a heart?"

"Go away," Regina hissed and quickly tried to cover up her deed.























