OUAT notes/plot points

- storybrooke
~ enchanted forest
> flashbacks
[rewrite] [THINGS THAT WOULD SEVERELY ALTER THE PLOT?]
("lines") (notes)
{important}

odile sends magical flowers to regina (heart/love)(after meeting robin), belle(wisdom)(after they discover rumple is still alive), the charmings (david - courage)(sent to "emma" at the charming's house, she keeps them on the dining room table), and henry (innocence) to absorb their essence (red roses and red carnations, sage and iris, edelweiss and thyme, baby's breath and daisies)

hook stays back in the enchanted forest

S3E11 - GOING HOME
- ENDING: HOOK RETURNS FOR EMMA
[- neal returns for emma]

S3E12 - NEW YORK CITY SERENADE
EMMA'S MEMORIES RETURNED AND SHE RETURNS TO STORYBROOKE; GROUP DISCOVERS CASTLE HAS BEEN TAKEN OVER
- emma gets her memory back {89 wooster st. new york, ny. 10012}
~ hook and everyone else go their separate ways; regina tries to bury her heart in the woods and is attacked by a flying monkey. they are saved by robin hood.
[- neal leaves emma a letter which she reads but decides to ignore after discovering the sender. emma is dating a man named Stryx Byrd. he proposes to emma and wants to bring her home to meet is family, in a town in maine. emma decides to go to the address neal provided in his letter, piqued with curiousity. she finds the dreamcatcher and henry's camera. she takes both back home and develops the photos. (neal also shows her the TL keychain at some point) she finally believes him and drinks the memory potion. emma breaks it off with Stryx and he transforms into an owl. a parliament of owls attack her. neal and emma fight off the owls and, with henry, they go back to storybrooke.]
[~ hook sets off in search of his ship after david tells him that all their belongings will show up somewhere. neal overhears and asks regina if it is true and tells her he is interested in bringing back the DO to get to emma and henry, unless she knows another way. (he shows them the emma's necklace) belle agrees that they shouldn't resurrect him and they him about ariel's power to travel between the realms. neal breaks off from the group to find her. regina is attacked by the great animal (mysterious and large creature) and is saved by robin hood. {regina is wounded and her blood breaks her blood magic throughout the castle} belle tells robin hood she wants to go back to the castle - it's home. the group discovers a protection spell around the castle and meet odile, who warns them not to touch the barrier.]

S3E13 - WITCH HUNT
DISCOVERY OF A NEW VILLIAN
- regina sees henry for the first time; emma and regina try to smoke out their adversary; regina attempts to make the memory potion; little john turns into a flying monkey; zelena becomes mary magaret's midwife
~ regina breaks into her castle with robin and makes a sleeping potion; zelena revealed to be regina's {sister}{blood magic}
[- regina sees henry for the first time; regina and emma discuss who might have caused this new curse; emma and regina hold a town meeting to try and divert attention away from their true cause and towards regina; regina tries to replicate the memory potion but fails; they tell everyone that regina was successful in making the memory potion; odile breaks into the office but escapes regina's blood magic because she has a vial of regina's blood; little john chases a turkey and gets too close to the border, turning him into an owl; after the failed attempt to catch their new adversary, emma is trying to destress at granny's diner and meets a red-bearded man named graham rothbart who claims to be a merry man.]
[~ regina breaks into her castle with robin hood and discovers the underground entry way and the crypt open; this could have only happened with blood magic; regina begins to work on a sleeping potion and robin tries to stop her; regina lowers the castle's defenses and prepares to inject herself with the sleeping potion; rothbart appears and reveals his relationship to her as maleficent's (adoptive) brother and that they broke in with the blood from her wounds; regina asks their intentions; rothbart says he wants to take the kingdom from her and the charmings and destroy everything they love; she says it's not possible because her son is in another realm and there's no way back; ("we'll find a way. all we have to do is resurrect the dark one and it shouldn't be a problem." "…how do you know about the DO?" "we have eyes and ears everywhere." -rothbart transforms into in owl-); regina has a new reason to live - to save henry]

S3E14 - THE TOWER 
COURAGE (RAPUNZEL)
~ snow white reveals pregnancy to charming; night root and rapunzel
- zelena spikes charming's drink with night root; hook and emma find zelena's hideout and rumple's spinning wheel
[~ hook has caught up with his band of pirates. odile finds him and he mistakes her for emma initially. (hook and odile are old "friends"(?)) she makes a deal with him to get him back to emma if he does what she says. (odile wants blackbeard to open the DO vault) at a bar at the docks, hook encounters ariel and she leads him to the jolly roger. they meet blackbeard and odile appears to take him away before telling ariel where prince eric is. neal is witness to this and offers to help her using a locater spell given to him by odile (E17). after reuniting with eric, ariel takes neal to the land without magic. (both hook and neal retain their memories - hook doesn't come back to storybrooke)]
[- emma receives flowers from rothbart. neal reunites with odile. emma and neal fight over their new friendships. emma, david, and mary margaret find rothbart's hideout and rumple's spinning wheel.]

S3E15 - QUIET MINDS
DARK ONE CASTLE AND RESURRECTION; NEAL DIES
- rumple has escaped; neal appears; regina discovers who robin is while searching zelena's cabin; neal and rumple are separated, rumple reveals who the wicked witch is, neal dies; david and emma go to confront zelena
~ Belle and Neal go to the DO castle to find a way back to storybrooke and defeat zelena (TL keychain!!!); lumiere and DO vault; Rumple absorbs neal
[- odile temporarily sets rumple free (complicates emma and neal's relationship - "your dad's alive?!" "i don't know emma!"); rumplestiltskin reveals rothbart and odile; regina discovers who robin is while looking searching for more clues at rothbart/odile's hidout. emma tells henry that she came to storybrooke because???]
[~ belle goes back to the DO castle with odile, not knowing who she is. she convinces belle to open the vault of the dark one with the key they found. odile uses blackbeard to open the vault and threatens belle to get the dagger from rumple. she forces rumple to tell her how to make a curse so they can go to where emma is.]

S3E16 - IT'S NOT EASY BEING GREEN
ZELENA'S HISTORY WITH RUMPLESTILTSKIN; NEAL'S FUNERAL
> zelena's history
- neal's funeral; zelena challenges regina to a showdown; regina discovers the rumple's letter to cora; hook teaches henry about neal; witch showdown; regina gives robin her heart
[- neal finally gets to spend some time with henry; rothbart and odile appear; rothbart asks for emma's hand, saying if she didn't say yes he would kidnap her son; snow and david seek belle's help and try and find out why rothbart wants their kingdom so badly; regina tries to find a way to protect henry from rothbart and has a heart-to-heart with robin]
[> rothbart was orphaned at a young age due to one of king william's (father of leopold) armies; rothbart's parents were successful in killing king william; maleficent and her mother found rothbart and took him in; they discover that he too had the powers of transfiguration, which was why his family was killed when they were trying to protect him, and they teach him how to control his power; rothbart wants to find out more about who killed his family and decides to take revenge against king william descendants - wants the kingdom]

S3E17 - THE JOLLY ROGER
ARIEL (rename cannot be ariel, an episode already has that name)
~ hook meets ariel and discovers blackbeard has the jolly roger
- emma learns magic from regina; ariel (zelena) shows up and tricks hook, cursing his lips so that when he kisses emma her magic will be gone
[- emma learns magic from regina to protect herself and henry from rothbart; odile meets up with neal to try and explain everything; odile gives neal a potion to slip to emma that will take away her magic ("slip this to emma. i don't care how but you need to do it soon. it will take away her magic." "i can't do that to her." "you must. or i will have to do something i really don't want to do to henry."); henry is fed up with everyone and goes off on his own; he ends up spending the day with odile, not knowing who she is.]
[~ odile and neal meet. (she is trying to find out more information about rumplestiltskin.) she tells him about her mother and he tells her about emma and henry. they discover they understand each other better than they realize. odile leads neal to the dock where he can find ariel and gives him a locater spell to use to find emma and henry.]

S3E18 - BLEEDING THROUGH ➝ E20
LOVE; CORA'S HISTORY
- zelena steals regina's heart; seance for cora; belle discovers zelena's plan; rumple tries to steal the dagger from zelena; regina and robin endgame
> cora's past, zelena's conception, dating prince leopold
[> odile's mother escapes to the world without magic via a magic bean; odile learns magic from her grandmother and maleficent; her grandmother is killed by king stefan and maleficent puts briar rose under a sleeping curse as revenge]
[- odile completes the preparations for a time portal; everyone searches for odile; henry remembers what she said about making a time portal and leads everyone to her; odile opens the time portal but henry is able to stop her by breaking her flower ring; regina puts a cuff on odile, preventing her from using magic and they take her back to the station ("i was only going to save you from the heartache my father caused. i was going to prevent my mother from leaving."); neal and odile have another heart-to-heart while she's in jail; odile returns the dagger to neal; neal gives the dagger to his father; rumple proposes to belle with a fake dagger and locks the real one in a safe; wind blows and the time portal is activated again]

S3E19 - (love is) A CURIOUS THING ➝ E18
HOW TO DEFEAT ZELENA, CHARMINGS CAST CURSE; BREAKING THE CURSE
~ belle reveals rumple's resurrection, charmings find out zelena wants their baby; everyone tries to find a way to break into the DO castle; directed by rumple, charmings and regina go to the north forest to find glinda the good; glinda reveals how to defeat zelena {light magic}{reason why snow and charming enact curse}; snow and charming decide to enact the dark curse to get back to emma and zelena adds a forgetting potion to the curse; regina splits snow's heart for both snow and charming; neal gets the memory potion to hook
- everyone tries to break the curse with henry; henry tries to run away but hook stops him; henry believes and remembers everything after he is attacked; zelena tries to kill henry; regina breaks the curse; mary margaret goes into labor
[- emma, regina, and the charmings search for the book to give henry back his memories while neal keeps an eye on henry; they think emma kissing henry will break the curse; neal catches henry trying to break into emma's car and shows him how it's done; neal and henry talk about why henry was trying to steal the bug and neal tells henry that running from your problems won't solve anything; henry retorts that it worked for neal, revealing that he knew neal was his father ("why can't i run away from my problems if you can?" "what do you mean?" "i know you're my father. i don't know why my mom is protecting you after everything you've done." "you know?" "i'm not stupid. i hear you talk. i wasn't sure at first but ???"); odile appears to neal and henry , demanding neal to hand henry over - WHY DOES ROTHBART WANT HENRY?; emma and the others arrive to save henry; emma gets henry to believe and he remembers everything; henry runs to regina and neal to hug them; regina kisses him and the curse is broken; rothbart interrupts their reunion; everyone gets in position to defend henry; ("well, it wasn't really henry i wanted anyways."); rothbart transforms into the great animal and kidnaps emma]
[~ belle reveals rumple's resurrection. rothbard/odile reveal their plans. everyone goes to DO castle. they find rumple and he reveals the true adversary is not odile, but rothbart. he tells them only maleficent and bridget, one of rothbart's old servants, know how to defeat him. robin hood knows who bridget is and leads them to her. bridget tells them only the purest light magic can stop rothbart. the charmings and regina try and find a way to get back. ("henry is the thing i love most, and he isn't here." "well emma is the thing we love most and she isn't here either.") odile appears with bridget. ("thank you, my dears, for that heartfelt confession. now i know how to destroy everything you love.") odile casts the curse crushing bridget's heart. she adds a memory potion, just for fun, and vanishes. odile makes a memory potion for her father. they leave the remaining concoction out, and rumplestiltskin sends a a vial of the potion out for emma]

S3E20 - KANSAS ➝ E19
WISDOM, EMMA LOSES HER MAGIC, THE BABY IS KIDNAPPED, THE HEROES SAVE THE DAY; ZELENA'S HISTORY WITH THE GLINDA AND DOROTHY
- zelena gets rumple's brain and creates the ring for the time portal; emma and hook try and find zelena; emma saves hook's life and {loses her magic}; the baby is taken; regina stops zelena with light magic and takes her pendant; regina stops rumple from killing zelena; regina gives the dagger to belle who gives it to rumple who uses it to propose to belle; rumple reveals to zelena that he never gave belle the dagger and kills zelena; the time portal opens again
> zelena meets glinda; witches of {love, wisdom, courage, and innocence} {time travel ingredients}; zelena is supposedly the one from the prophecy; dorothy arrives; zelena feels threatened; zelena sends dorothy back to kansas and banishes glinda
[> odile is raised with bridget, who feels like a mother to her; (cora and?) maleficent teach her the ways of magic, but she was not given the gift of transfiguration; bridget tells her about an ancient spell, that was rumored to be able to turn back time, though no sorcerer has ever been successful before]
[~ odile is discussing the possibility of a time portal with bridget and creates the magical flowers she will use to absorb the necessary essences; bridget gives her a pocket full of fairy dust; odile collects other ingredients necessary for fairy bread]
[- a swan is seen on the lake; as the moonlight hits the lake, the swan transforms into emma; rothbart tells emma he didn't want to do this to her but will change her back in exchange for her hand (the spell works because rothbart forced her to drink a potion that temporarily took away her powers, when the spell is broken her powers come back); she refuses; everyone, including henry, storm rothbart's hideout to try and get emma back; the hideout has become maze like, the only way to escape is to reach their goal (finding emma) (teams: charmings, regina robin and henry, neal and belle); the charmings get trapped in an illusion room, showing them life without the curse; neal and belle meet rumplestiltskin; regina and robin get separated from henry; odile meets henry and tells him she never wanted to hurt him, or anyone; odile alludes to the time portal she's working on (they walk past it on the way to the lake where emma is); odile leads him to emma and tells him how to break the curse upon her; rothbart appears and adds one more condition - he must tell the difference between emma and odile; rothbart transforms swan emma into human emma and odile into emma; henry chooses correctly and the spell is broken; enraged, rothbart turns into the great animal and knocks emma unconscious; neal and belle find henry under attack from rothbart; odile tells neal that the only way to defeat rothbart is an arrow to the heart ("what? but won't that kill him?" "exactly." "i'm not going to kill him, there's got to be another way!"); henry reveals that he has pandora's box, which he swiped form gold's shop ("what about this? i remember everyone using this in neverland."); neal shoots the great animal in the wing bringing him down; odile casts a spell on him to temporarily transform him back to his human form and heals his arm; belle uses pandora's box to trap him; the enchantments on the house are broken and odile spirits away unnoticed]

S3E21 - SNOW DRIFTS (play on words, snow white drifts from proper path)
TIME TRAVEL
> emma watches another girl get adopted
- emma and family talk about baby names and not moving to new york; regina and robin hook up; rumple hides the real bagger from belle and they discuss their wedding; potluck/coronation; everyone discover's zelena's "escape" and rumple alters the surveillance tapes; emma and hook fall into the time portal
~ time travel mess
[> emma watches another girl get adopted]
[- emma and family are at granny's celebrating emma and henry's return; snow quietly confronts emma about taking henry back to new york; emma reveals she doesn't have magic anyways so she would be fine going back to new york; regina overhears and makes a scene; emma leaves the restaurant angrily; neal goes after her, after being given the book from henry; they see the time portal and go to investigate and fall in]
[~ neal and emma go back in time to when snow was still a bandit; they interrupt the meeting between snow white and charming; they go to rumplestilskin for help who sends them to prince david's engagement party; they appear under the aliases prince aiden and princess cassidy; snow gets the ring but drops it; emma gets arrested]

S3E22 - THERE'S NO PLACE LIKE HOME
TIME TRAVEL
> neal and emma at the amusement park
~ time travel mess
- baby is named neal; captain swan kiss; rumbelle wedding; marian; elsa is released from the jar
[> neal and emma at the amusment park]
[~ the soldier that brings emma back to her cell is graham; she tells him he has to leave or he'll die and he tells her he can't, there's no where safe as long as the queen holds his heart; emma meets her cellmate (marian) and breaks them out; charming, neal, and ruby meet up with emma and marian as they are escaping; graham helps save snow from regina; graham gives emma his heart and show snow to safety; emma is relieved and hugs her mother; snow doesn't recognize her; emma resolves to stay in storybrooke; neal and emma fight about everything and emma accidentally opens the portal by opening herself up to her emotions; rumplestilskin neal before leaving]
[- emma and neal arrive back in storybrooke with marian and graham's heart; odile was waiting for them to come back and they take her to the sheriff's station; they return to granny's diner after filling marian in; emma embraces her parents and tells henry they're going to stay in storybrooke and do their best as a family; neal and emma discuss their trip to the enchanted forest and their reunion; they decide to go to the rumbelle wedding together (wedding next season); emma reveals she was princess cassidy; marian and robin reunite, upsetting regina; graham shows up and kisses emma ("your parents already called to tell me you're staying. so i thought this would be the perfect time to ask: emma swan, will you marry me?"); hook and odile talk in the jail cell and she gives him blackbeard's trophy]

[bring back marian and GRAHAM'S HEART?]